Welcome back everyone. Today Pat and I will be reviewing an online session we played with pretty high stakes.
What you got for us here, brother?
Mate, it's all going off. It's all going off, mate.
We've got the 215, 15 off the money top, right?
No, hold on. Let's do table 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6.
Yeah, it might. Okay.
Table 1 is a 150 on GG PSKO.
Table 2 is a 215 big game, which is another PSKO on GG.
Table 3 is a 215, I think like 70k with 15 off the money.
Table 4 is the 1K thrill on GG.
630 table 5, and then table 6 is a $54.
Cool.
Well, let's jump right in and see what's going on. Immediately we see you playing a pretty big pot with AQ. Do you remember the action?
Yes, so preflop, we open 2 BBs, he 3-bets to 10.
What do you think preflop?
What's your red dot mean?
Means redline player.
Okay. I think the decision is easy versus a redline guy. I think it's a really clear call.
Yeah, absolutely. And then I'd fold.
For those who notice, the very first question I ask is 'who's the player,' right? Because 2 to 10, a reasonable amount of general population or even at lower stakes is a very clear call or a very clear fold.
And then again, against a good aggressive reg or as you call them a redline player, right?
Yeah.
Redline is if you look in PokerTracker, your win rate over time without showdown.
So a redline player is typically going to be on the aggressive side, he's going to have all the appropriate bluffs here.
Therefore.
It's still, by the way, even if it's still winning very, very little versus the most aggro guy in the world, right? It's still a very, very, if you can fold, it's still a really marginal spot.
Yeah, that's good to point that out.
So they make it 10 you call and I assume based on the rest of the pot size they see that quarter and you call.
Yeah, yeah, I see that quarter. And then we have a decision on the turn now.
I don't remember the exact timing he took to check.
But this hand, I think, what do you think about the turn here with AQ?
It's one of the worst hands we land here with.
I do think that our opponent does play some Kx this way, but also plays a lot of hands this way to beat us that might end up folding either now or later.
Yeah.
So I'm really torn on to bluff or not to bluff.
I do think I lean bluff.
Yeah, yeah.
If you're really torn about whether to bluff or not, it's close whatever you do.
If you just lean bluff every time, you're not going to be losing too much EV.
I think in this particular spot, it's much better, it's more important here not to block a hand like QQ♥️ that's calling the turn folding the river, than it is to block flushes. There's not going to be many flushes in his 3-betting range from these positions.
So I think AQ without a heart becomes a really good triple barrel.
And then AQs♥️, pocket pairs with the heart are willing to check call, check call.
It's kind of a tough, I'm going to have QJs, I'm not going to have AJo preflop.
Most of my bluffs will probably be something like AQ and then 65s or 54s.
And one of those combos are flush too, so I'm kind of struggling for bluffs here.
Yeah, from a value perspective, are you going to be value betting KQ here to try to bet and shove, or are you going to bet and show?
Mm, that's a very, very good question.
My concern is that we're going to be over-bluffing this situation based on just a pure weighting of how much value and how many bluffs we might have.
You know, because we have 15 combos of AQ that are bluffs, three of AJ that are bluffs, three of the four since AJ♥️ isn't there and then AQ♥️ isn't there too.
Obviously we can have TT for three more combos of value, probably don't land here with 55s.
You know, so we probably play AA this way as well for value, right? So there's a few more combos.
So I'm just trying to think about one, if we bet this and bluff this, if we're going to be massively over-bluffing, and two, do we care?
Yeah, yeah, that's a big point.
Mhm. Because sometimes it's acceptable and the best option to overbluff.
Yeah.
I 100% agree. I think if you're in this spot, you always shove AA here versus almost anyone in the world when they make it 10 BB.
A solver might slow play, don't do it, just always shove AA, always shove AA.
Um.
But yeah, on the river, I think when it's close and the good thing about bluffing the turn is we can bluff for a very small sizing.
So we don't need to bet very big to get a hand like ATo♠️ to fold or JJ without hearts to fold.
Mhm. So when the option's close and the option of bluffing small is really good, just always take that bluffing small option, I think.
Yeah, and I do think that there is a ton of EV in betting turn.
the position of disadvantage. That's again from a theoretical perspective against weaker opponents who are going to overfold post-flop.
I'm a big, big fan of having a very high SB raise because I think they play so bad.
I think people overfold to it. They overfold flop. Therefore, you're profiting a lot.
You also don't get limp 3-bet bluffed by an average guy.
They don't limp 79s. They don't limp 79o.
Oh, for the SB. Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, it's true, it's true.
It works both ways. People are too passive in position and out of position. Just do something aggressive BB vs BB, and it's going to work well.
And this is actually the spot you're talking about when you're in the BB and SB limps. This is actually something Chrissy recently talked about, where in early stages of really deep stacks, if the SB limps, she just raises and doesn't really care if she gets called because the fold frequency post-flop is high enough that she's just winning a bigger pot on average.
So attacking the capped range, those weaker ranges that limp call when people are unbalanced, it's just going to turn a really nice profit.
So back to the decision at hand.
What sizing do you like here and why?
When I'm playing a $150 tournament, there's two things that I ask myself straight away: Who is the opponent, and what does my hand want to do?
Who is your opponent, what does my hand want to do?
AA wants to get lots of money in pre-flop.
So what's the best way to do that?
In general, if I'm limping AA, it's versus someone that is going to do the Chrissy B thing, right?
That's going to raise 85o 100% frequency.
That way, they're going to put 3.5 BB in, and then we want to check-raise to a really big sizing because we want to now get A5o is going to fold whatever, but we want to get the maximum versus JTs or whatever.
Versus a range that wants to see a flop, you want to charge that range a lot of money because it's not going to fold to a bet.
He's never going to fold to a bluff here. He's just going to see a flop.
So in those instances, it's very good to go big with value.
When your range is polarized, the other person is incentivized to call.
When your polarity increases, your sizing generally wants to increase with it because you're not interested in seeing a flop if that makes sense.
So really nice.
The absolute smallest I think we should go here is like 13x to 14x. I could definitely see the logic for going larger.
I think I went 15x.
I gave the AA discount.
You've got to give them a little bit of rope.
That's why I thought about 13x or 14x because you have that AA discount.
13.9x or something, 13.99x.
Yeah, I'm in for it.
Let's see what I do.
Okay, I'll go pretty big. I'll go bigger.
But yeah, just always asking myself, who is the villain and what does my hand want to do?
So if it's a passive guy, I would just raise 7x there because he's not going to 3-bet me.
And he's going to call JTs whatever I do.
So just target the inelastic continues, kind of.
If you go 3.5x with AA, that's kind of the only money that's going in there unless he has JTs, Qs. They 3-bet if you go 7x anyway, so you're just guaranteeing money gets in there.
Yeah, definitely.
Now let's talk about Table 3. We're UTG. Jams 8-handed for 7 BB. We have A10s.
What's your thought process here?
Who is villain, and what does my hand want to do?
I think I just want to fold here.
This range shouldn't have many hands that we dominate in it.
As in A9o can raise-fold, that's the only one. And there's five stacks behind.
A9o could raise-fold, but will it raise-fold or will it just shove?
AX, AK, AQ always shove anyway, they've got no.
I would say that there's a certain percentage of the population who just jams way too many of their weak AX combos here and is just jamming too wide for 7 BB.
So, "who is my opponent" is naturally a very good first question.
But I think this one's extremely close.
One thing, if it's close, like let's say I have 30 BB here, and I can cool fold to everyone behind.
Or it's not that big of a 1/3 of my stack's quite a big hit to take.
So 9 off the money, I think better to just if I'm not sure, just put 0 in.
Because 9 off the money, see, that's an incredibly important factor.
I'm not worried about ICM PV, mate. I'll take it PV.
You did tell us. Well, you're 18 off the money. So, there's 79 left, 44th, 61 pay.
It does make it significantly closer when there's this much ICM. Players are going to shove tighter. Our chips and our stack are much more valuable than they are otherwise.
Yeah, I mean, the stage of the tournament is incredibly relevant here.
So what if you're in the first 40% of a tournament?
Oh, we get we get gambling shoes on.
Are you just rejaming most likely?
Your range is strong enough here where you probably don't want to have that many call folds. You're not looking to VPIP tons of hands here.
So you have enough traps in your calling range that you're comfortable calling with obviously behind.
I mean, maybe if we flat here, maybe AQ hero folds. I don't know. Maybe something like that happens, but.
Yeah. I think call is better as well.
But like, it is worth noting that if someone jams the CO and you have ATo on the BTN, it's going to be a re-jam scenario.
For sure. And but then you don't have five guys behind that can wake up with TT or JJ.
Exactly.
But yeah, just a close spot, I'll just keep my 20 BBs and operate. I'd prefer to do that.
Assuming you fold.
Are you going to fold? You can just tell us and we can go to other hand here.
I thought I'd keep the suspense. No, I just folded here.
So I'm going to go back to this Q5♥️ hand.
MP opens, SB calls, we over call Q5s.
And it comes nothing for us. The turn is an A♥️ after it checks through.
What are your thoughts on leading versus checking? I think a lot of people will just think, oh, I have a flush draw, I have to lead.
I don't see much fold equity. The way Q5 makes its EV is once in position checks back and says I don't have QJ or KJ, I have 66.
At the moment I'm attacking two ranges that still have JX.
If I check the turn, I can hit my flush, or I can bluff with more info.
As in now the SB checks three times and the in-position player checks twice. I think just delaying this hand to the river makes a lot of sense.
We don't have that much fold equity on the turn.
Yeah, and I do think it's a spot where people make the mistake of just leading turn because they have equity. And I agree with you completely. I don't think you really are going to get folds often enough to make it good.
It comes back to that theme: what does my hand want to do? And Q5 wants to see a river for really good bluffing spots and it wants to realize.
I've called the river here. Um.
You did call the river here.
I okay, I didn't see him value bet 88.
No, for sure. And I thought a J would bet the turn really often. So sometimes we lose to J9s, J8s, JTs.
But there's some K high, there's some 98s, 87s.
There's enough bluffs in there, I think.
Yeah. I was actually really surprised to see his exact hand.
If he value bet 99, well played, I wouldn't expect it. People are just a bit nit.
He showed you a full house for him.
Yeah, good read. Dead read.
But we saved the whole stack, mate. We saved 4 BBs.
Do you think people have the mental aspect of, well, my hand could have bet the turn, so it's okay if I lose a bet anyway?
No, I think people have the mental aspect of they need to win the pot rather than they need to make the maximum EV decision.
As in you checking the turn there will make more money for Q5♥️, but you'll lose the pot more often. It's a very strange paradox. I'm not sure paradox is the right word, but it's like you're trying to maximize EV of your hand. You're not trying to win that pot.
You're trying to make the highest EV.
Yeah, I agree, but I'm saying people's mental hurdles, where they justify it as, 'Well, I would have lost this amount anyway, had I bet the turn.'
I can just call it.
There is some logic to it. There's definitely logic to it.
Yeah, I've kind of thought that way before.
And I can definitely see people making that mistake where,
let's just say 66 were to check back and then one of the players leads the river and they're like, well, I would have lost if I c-bet anyway, so I can call 66.
Well, with 66, what you're doing is you're putting the right amount of money in the pot for your hand. So it can't be that bad, right?
If you were meant to lose this bet, it can't be too bad, I think.
But that's the mental issue that I'm talking about is, 'Well, it can't be that bad because I would have lost this much anyway.'
But in reality, each individual decision is a different decision. The variables have changed. It's a different spot.
We mentally trick ourselves into making mistakes, I think, when we do that.
Sure, I can see that.
So you defend J6o here versus UTG open.
Yeah, yeah.
And I think a lot of people are just going to fold this preflop, the vast majority probably.
Well, all charts are 2.2x, 2.3x at 36. None of them are min-raise.
And then also there's something happening with the 6 where most of his range is A-high, right?
Yeah.
What you get with the 66 is you always get like, you see a hand like K6s flatting four-bets, things like that, just because of the 2345 effect.
So I think I would fold J5 and call J6, but it's very, very marginal. It's not like a big deal.
Yeah. But when I'm playing six tables, I'm going to take any small edge if I'm playing six tables.
If I'm playing 10 tables, I'll fold this preflop.
For anyone who's watched your videos before, Pat does not like to fold preflop.
No, mate. We're not fold it.
That's an easy spot to miss with K8o by the way.
That's like pure call for 4 BBs.
I don't know about that, bro.
I've looked at this quite a lot recently, it's a pure call.
Why do you think this is a pure call? I would always fold this.
Run it, probably run it, mate. Probably have a look in HRC.
I was always folding this before too, but when you have money in the SB and then you're getting 3-to-1, sometimes the original raiser shoves and it gets heads-up too.
Sometimes the original raiser shoves and it gets heads up too.
Yeah, these are Also, when I've got 4 BBs here, I'm looking for any reason to gamble. I don't even have access to any part of the prize pool yet.
I don't even have access to any part of the prize pool yet.
I'm not going to min cash and I don't cover anyone, so I'm just playing you want to gamble as much as possible when you're very short in PSKO.
So, yeah, keep in mind everyone, this is mostly, well, not mostly, but your decision would change if registration wasn't open still.
And I'm not going to lie, in a $55, I'm a bit more incentivized to gamble than I am.
If I was playing 10K.
There we go.
But the truth comes out.
It's still a spot you're supposed to call way wider than people do.
And yeah, you're looking for any excuse to gamble at 4 or 5 BBs when the whole table covers you. You're making no money in the tournament.
So, on table 4, you raised KTo,
and the BB, Jao, very good reg.
I would say on the tighter side. What's your read there?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Defense big.
More solid side of things, more solid.
But a very good player at this stack depth.
Are you just balancing your wide range wide c-bet?
Yeah, it's actually only I think there's mostly just small bets happening here.
It's a flush draw board, there's a lot of good run outs for him around the 4 and the 6.
And also he has a nut advantage this deep. As in, he has K6o, K4o, 64o, we don't.
So there's not actually that much big betting happening. But that's like a technical thing.
If I think the guy's going to check-raise me a lot when I bet a quarter pot.
Again, it's like who is your opponent?
If it's someone that's not check-raising, I'm going to bet half pot on flop, whatever.
Who is your opponent? What does my hand want to do?
KTo wants to get a little bit of action.
Yeah, we have kicker problems.
Yeah, yeah.
Are you folding AK?
Video must be frozen.
We don't fold AK to one bet, mate.
Oh, hold up, you added two more tables.
Okay.
Yeah, it should go back to normal in a second.
I can adjust the thing now, hold on a sec.
So what size did he, we didn't see the size you check-raised on the flop with, but I imagine it's like 4-5x.
It's pretty easy to figure it out. You bet 1.4 into 5.6, and now there's about 15.6, so he made it 5 BBs.
Made it 5 BBs.
So, again, this really comes down to player type.
When you bet 25% on the flop, most high stakes regs
are going to do a lot of check-raising with 6x and 4x.
In a solver, those hands are always randomizing.
It's very easy to not randomize 65 and just check-raise it versus 25%.
So it's definitely an over-bluffed node on the flop, I would say as Nazar.
And then what do you think about the turn? Would you bet or check?
I think he is actually going to have a lot of flush draws as well facing the smaller sizing.
He's also going to have 58, 78.
But those gut-shots, you know, they only have 6.6%, so it's not as big of a concern.
I think if you go too much smaller, you might just get check-raised again and get put in a really difficult spot.
I mean, I wouldn't mind. I'd be okay. I think it's so unnatural for him to check value on the turn here.
This is where you can actually make quite a lot of money waving a red flag in front.
As in, it's really tough for him to check, to check-raise the flop with a 6 and then go for a double check-raise on the turn.
You don't mind inducing here. It's not that tough of a spot, I don't think. You actually make quite a lot of money.
Because it's going to be really easy for him to overbluff.
As in, he's kind of repping exactly 44.
Then if you trigger something, he's more likely to just have a random 4x♣️ or a random 75 than he is 44.
Yeah, I agree with that.
So he folds.
Stan is there.
I'm also going to go back to the AK, 42 effective. Let me get off this four-wide screen. There we go.
You'll notice, I think the vast majority of people are just all-in for 40 BBs here with AK, and for most people, I think that's probably the best play.
However, when you do have such an aggressive 4-betting and a bluffing image, you get to click hands like this.
Yeah. This is also a really good friend. This is a GTO trainer I've been coaching for the last three years or so.
So he knows all about.
He knows, he knows like there's definitely a non-zero percent chance he just takes A4s and he's just over-it versus me here.
Also, what it does do, those very small times it goes all-in, all-in.
You can probably get away then.
As in if the UTG guy shoves and now Pat shoves with a cold 4-bet range behind, this is AA and KK only, kind of.
So you can get away.
Yeah, I hadn't thought about that. That's interesting.
Shove call, lose less, induce. So a multi-faceted benefits here.
And if he has AJo or A5s.
I don't, there's only a 1 SPR. I'm fine with those hands calling.
If he starts having 78s, now it starts becoming a bit dicey, now I'm more likely to shove.
But as the range gets more linear, you shove AK, and then as the range gets more polar you're facing, then you start clicking it.
As in if he's having AQ here and he's calling my shove, I'm always shoving AK.
When he's not calling AQ and he's polar, then you need to give him a bit more.
Give him a little bit more rope.
Yeah, for sure.
All right, well let's end this part here and we will see everyone in the next one.
I think the turn is somewhat mandatory because of what you mentioned: the T-x and the Js no heart.
But then the question comes down to, do we follow through or not? So I agree with you, I think the turn is probably maybe not a slam dunk, but a bet we should be taking.
Looks like you're going third and not
Cool. I went 8.5. Okay, I went 8.5.
So 8.5 is going to be a mandatory call versus most players.
Yeah, yeah, so I wanted to get the early history, I forgot.
You re-ran the hand.
It doesn't just me checking to see who he is and the note I have on him, it might not change my pre-flop decision with AQ, but it sets my mindset for the whole hand, right?
Yeah.
Mhm.
And he also went third instead of quarter, which makes sense based on the smaller pre-flop raise. But again, I don't really think that it changes our decision tree. You know, like we still have a hand that wants to call flop. We still have a hand that wants to bet turn.
It's just information for later in the hand. That's it, it doesn't change his decision immediately.
Um.
But yeah, I think it's kind of a 'whatever' spot, I think, on the river. Definitely
I wouldn't like betting turn then giving up river. So it's either one or the two, right? You either bet the turn and follow through or you check the turn and then delay bluff the river.
Oh, you don't like shutting down.
Well, I never shut down. I always think once this guy checks twice, you probably get some really good bluffing opportunities.
So I'm almost never giving up in hands. I'm waiting until later to bluff, is the way I look at it.
Yeah. As in the more the more range checks, the more likely it is to fold.
So you come with third.
Okay.
As in like when he bets the flop and then checks twice, 99 is always in that range.
Now when we bet the turn, that range still has AA and AK. You know what I mean? You strip the strong hands when he double checks.
And it's also so important to point out that you mentioned 99. A lot of the players watching this video, 99 are not in this range. Neither is ATs. Neither is AJ. Neither are all of these different pieces, right? So a very strong argument can be made for folding against players who are massively under 3-betting.
100%.
Which is a lot of population.
And just speed of 3-bet too, I think, just when you're playing six tables, I really watch timing.
As in like if he has A5s, you're going to think, 'Do I flat or do I 3-bet?' If you have AK, you just 3-bet. The timing's quite important.
Yeah. When you're playing versus humans.
I mean, we ran into AK, which I don't think says much about my bluff, really?
No. It only says if he calls like ATo♠️, that says a lot about my bluff, I guess.
Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
So you open AA 100 BB deep on table one, top left guy.
And you know, we have a Talk a little bit about the theory behind limping at this stack depth versus raising. From a GTO perspective, it wants to have a lot more limps at the 100 BB deep stack depth, just because of